# Hypersurface

This is the monorepo for the Hypersurface protocol.

Although the user application interface will be written in SolidJS, the majority of user functionality will be implemented in basic HTML using Hypersurface's HyperLegal Markup Language ("HLML") and the HTML Extension for Hypersurface ("HXH"). Preliminary implementations of these can be found in the "frontend" directory. HLML and HXH represent a simple layer of abstraction on top of basic HTML. The purpose of these extensions is to enable sophisticated blockchain functionality to be made accessible in a form factor that is extremely simple. We believe this will greatly enhance security and democratize access by transforming the primary interaction patterns of web3.

The Hypersurface core protocol centers around a new form of upgradeable proxy smart contract called "Hyperserver". At the core of this contract is an append-only ledger where data may be entered.

The construction of Hyperserver enables namespaced domains to be associated with different ledger entries, which may be used for lookup, retrieval, and interaction. This forms the basis of a new routing system that enables basic HTML to interface with smart contracts via the HXH library. For example, instead of specifying (1) a smart contract account address (e.g., "0x01..AB"), (2) a delegate logic contract address (e.g., "0x02..CD"), and (3) a function selector (e.g., "0xabcde.."), users can instead provide a semantic URL (e.g., acme/shares/transfer), which can be used for hyperlinks, GET, and POST actions. Instead of using an unsafe standard HTML input such as `type="string"` or `type="number"`, forms can take advantage of custom HXH Solidity type-safe attributes, such as `type="bytes32"` or `hxh-type="uint256"`.

Ledger entries can record and serve HTML web pages. Due to the trustless way in which ledger entries are served, and the use of basic HTML for smart legal documents, user uncertainty surrounding their intended purpose of these pages can be minimized. This means that the web3 promise of "don't trust, verify" can be fulfilled in the frontend UX for the first time. The seamless integration of logic libraries and trustless HTML is used to create smart legal documents, meaning entire transactions, assets, and organizations can be rendered as legally enforceable websites with embedded execution capabilities.

Another unique trait of the Hyperserver proxy design is the tokenization of ledger entries. Data held within a tokenized entry can be withheld from everyone but token holders, creating a single standardized means for access management and a way to introduce complete privacy around entry libraries and data (by virtue of Oasis Sapphire's privacy guarantees). This also creates novel opportunities for the sharing and commodification of data and functionalities within the Hypersurface ecosystem.

Hyperserver is standardized and enables the routing of calls to an arbitrary depth. Due to the unique signing mechanism of Hyperserver, the appropriate signature can be added at each level of depth in a form factor that is extremely simple. This is extremely useful as many types of interaction have previously been too complicated for general/non-technical users. An example of such routing may look something like: john-smith/wallet-1 -> vc-firm/fund-ii -> investee-company/shares/transfer -> recipient-entity/treasury.

Hypersurface exists at the intersection of the traditional legal system, fundamental web technologies, and cutting-edge smart contract functionality. This unique combination of features means that not only can the blockchain be used in ways that users are familiar with for the first time ever (i.e., like the web), but it also forms the basis for a new fundamental web architecture. For more information, please see the [Hypersurface Whitepaper](https://github.com/hypersurface-protocol/whitepaper).
